# A MORE HEARTWARMING  WAY OF RECORDING FAMILY MEMORIES

## Summary
- This Grandma's method is a little more comforting  and a little more heart-filled.
- (gentle music)  - Joy watched her grandmother work the needle and thread,  but there was something else happening here  that Joy could not see nor understand.
- - A quilt may be somebody else's story,  but it makes her feel awful to think someone through a way  another grandmother's hard work.
- I met one woman who is preserving a way of life  and teaching others how to pass along stories  through the generations.
- Mom's baked pies and other images  that trigger stories that have been passed through generations.
- Grandma was young once and lived a life in some ways,  very different from the one we're living today.

## Action Items
- This quilt started in 1931,  after Grandma's brother-in-law died of cancer.

## Deep Summary
- - I'm sure that she thought about the many hours  she prayed for him and I'm sure tears fell on that quilt  as she quilted it.
- Quilting is a way of working off your emotions.
- - She didn't stitch moonwalks or inventions in her fabrics,  but she did capture the family history in this quilt for her mother.
- They were woven together on the family farm in Sydney, Illinois  and allowed this stoic woman to express her loss  the only way she knew how.

## Transcript
(upbeat music)  - Welcome back, it is 945. It is easy to forget. Grandma was young once and lived a life in some ways,  very different from the one we're living today. I met one woman who is preserving a way of life  and teaching others how to pass along stories  through the generations. Oh, sure, you have your selfies,  which will probably be on your phone forever. This Grandma's method is a little more comforting  and a little more heart-filled. (gentle music)  - Joy watched her grandmother work the needle and thread,  but there was something else happening here  that Joy could not see nor understand. This quilt started in 1931,  after Grandma's brother-in-law died of cancer. Now, 80 years later, that quilt belongs to Joy. - I'm sure that she thought about the many hours  she prayed for him and I'm sure tears fell on that quilt  as she quilted it. When he died,  a part of my Grandma died too. Quilting is a way of working off your emotions. It probably was very painful for her to have to talk about it. - Like the hand-sewn quilt grieving takes time. They were woven together on the family farm in Sydney, Illinois  and allowed this stoic woman to express her loss  the only way she knew how. But the yellow quilt also inspired that little girl. This is another storage unit here. And this one, the whole 28 quilt. - She now has more than 50 quilts  in every closet and corner of her apartment. - There's a story in every quilt. I'm convinced of that. Didn't think very much about storage when I was doing my own quilts  because I thought, "Who cares what I'm doing? "  And yet, as I look back in time,  I realized, President was a fascinated man,  walked on the moon. We just got her to the computer. As self, I've just took over the world. - You're not feeling it now. - She didn't stitch moonwalks or inventions in her fabrics,  but she did capture the family history in this quilt for her mother. Each panel tells a story. - My dad says to Brother Paul,  "Do not pick that apple off of the tree. "  My brother says, "Dad, I didn't disobey you. "I didn't pick the apple off the tree. "What did you do? "He put a ladder on the tree. "Ate the apple left the core. "  - There's the family farm. Mom's baked pies and other images  that trigger stories that have been passed through generations. And these hands have spent months at a time quilting  and grieving herself. - Yeah, he's bringing back one from yours. - When her husband died,  she made a quilt from his ties. Ties she helped pick out over the years. - He was such a special person. - But Joy's passion isn't just making quilts,  some of these she didn't make at all. If she sees one in a thrift store, she'll buy it. And it's not as if she needs another quilt. She brings it home. - Because we're not disposable. And we're living in a disposable society. And I hear for us to be more connected. - A quilt may be somebody else's story,  but it makes her feel awful to think someone through a way  another grandmother's hard work. Not to mention the memories  woven into these intricate designs. (gentle music)  At this point, Joy has more quilts than descendants. But we've shown you a few quilts  that are a little more special. They bring the family tree to life  in a different way than the scrapbook. - I think a child will cover up with a quilt  and you've told a grandma made that for you. And even though they're little,  somehow they know that some kind of a memory,  some kind of a gift that you can't just go out and buy. - Unless someday, someone finds Joy's quilts in a thrift store  and shares her passion for preserving the past. They may never understand her family stories,  but perhaps they'll be drawn to what it represents. A way of life in small town America  that is slowly slipping away along with the handmade quilts.
